README.md, before:

# AndroidWorld

[![Unittests](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/actions/workflows/pytest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/actions/workflows/pytest.yml)

<p align="center">
<a href="https://google-research.github.io/android_world/">Website</a> •
<a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2405.14573">Paper</a>
</p>

![Overview](assets/overview.png)

**AndroidWorld** is an environment for building and benchmarking autonomous computer control agents.

It runs on a live Android emulator and contains a highly reproducible benchmark of 116 hand-crafted tasks across 20 apps, which are dynamically instantiated with randomly-generated parameters to create millions of unique task variations.

In addition to the built-in tasks, AndroidWorld also supports the popular web benchmark, MiniWoB++ from [Liu et al.](http://arxiv.org/abs/1802.08802).

Key features of AndroidWorld include:

* 📝 **116 diverse tasks** across 20 real-world apps
* 🎲 **Dynamic task instantiation** for millions of unique variations
* 🏆 **Durable reward signals** for reliable evaluation
* 🌐 **Open environment** with access to millions of Android apps and websites
* 💾 **Lightweight footprint** (2 GB memory, 8 GB disk)
* 🔧 **Extensible design** to easily add new tasks and benchmarks
* 🖥️ **Integration with MiniWoB++** web-based tasks

See demo videos on our [website](https://google-research.github.io/android_world/).

## Installation

1. Set up the Android Emulator
   1. Download Android Studio [here](https://developer.android.com/studio?gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQjw3ZayBhDRARIsAPWzx8oLcadBD0vAq8xmUutaunLGSzhgEtLz4xVZ_SpV4G0xJazS7LxQkDsaAuveEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds)
   2. Create an Android Virtual Device (AVD) by following these instructions. For hardware select **Pixel 6**, for System Image select **Tiramisu, API Level 33**, and choose AVD name as **AndroidWorldAvd**. [Watch the setup video.](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/assets/162379927/efc33980-8b36-44be-bb2b-a92d4c334a50)

1. Launch the Android Emulator from the command line

    Launch the emulator from the command line, not using the Android Studio UI, with the `-grpc 8554` flag which is needed communication with accessibility forwarding app.

    ```bash
    # Typically it's located in ~/Android/Sdk/emulator/emulator or
    # ~/Library/Android/sdk/emulator/emulator
    EMULATOR_NAME=AndroidWorldAvd # From previous step
    ~/Library/Android/sdk/emulator/emulator -avd $EMULATOR_NAME -no-snapshot -grpc 8554
    ```

1. [Optional] It's recommended to use `conda`, which you can download [here](https://docs.anaconda.com/free/miniconda/miniconda-install/).

    ```
    conda create -n android_world python=3.11.8
    conda activate android_world
    ```

1. Install the latest [AndroidEnv](https://github.com/google-deepmind/android_env):

    ```python
    git clone https://github.com/google-deepmind/android_env.git
    cd android_env
    python setup.py install
    ```

1. Install AndroidWorld. *Note: Python 3.11 or above is required.*

    ```python
    git clone https://github.com/google-research/android_world.git
    cd ./android_world
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python setup.py install
    ```

1. Add model provider APIs as environment variables.

    ```bash
    # Add to .bashrc.
    export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-key
    export GCP_API_KEY=your-key
    ```

## Quickstart

Run the `minimal_task_runner.py` script to see the basic mechanics of AndroidWorld components. It initializes the environment, sets up a task, and runs the default agent, M3A, on it.
```bash
python minimal_task_runner.py --task=ContactsAddContact
```

If you don't specify a task, a random task will be selected. *NOTE: If you want to try open-source apps, i.e not included with Android OS, please run `--perform_emulator_setup` in the script below.*

## Run the benchmark

```bash
python run.py \
  --suite_family=android_world \
  --agent_name=t3a_gpt4 \
  --perform_emulator_setup \
  --tasks=ContactsAddContact,ClockStopWatchRunning \  # Optional: Just run on a subset.
  -v=-2 \
```

The first time you run this script, you must install the necessary apps and set permissions by specifying `--perform_emulator_setup`. This is a one-time setup.

Above we specify the optional `--tasks` flag to run on a subset of tasks. Leave it empty to run on the entire AndroidWorld suite.

The `n_task_combinations` argument specifies how many parameter permutations to use for each task. For example, for an SMS task, it would correspond to different phone number/message combinations for each run.

If a run fails part-way through, you can resume it by re-running the script with the `--checkpoint_dir` flag pointing to the output directory from the original run.

You can control verbosity with `-v`. The -2 verbosity level is equivalent to `DEBUG`.

## Running MiniWoB++ tasks

To run the MiniWoB++ web-based tasks in AndroidWorld, simply set
`--suite_family=miniwob` in the command above.

A key advantage of running MiniWoB++ tasks is that common input elements are
rendered as native, commonly used Android UI widgets, rather than as HTML. Thus agents must learn to use universal
widgets such as time- and date-pickers:

<p align="center">
   <img src="assets/miniwob.png" style="width:30%">
</p>

## Create your own agent

In addition to the agents we provide [here](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/tree/main/android_world/agents), you can also easily create your own agent and run the benchmark with it as follows.

1. Create an agent class that inherits from [EnvironmentInteractingAgent](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/6e4feb00702735c9a7485f4ae714528a058cb2b7/android_world/agents/base_agent.py#L39C1-L39C44) and implement the [step](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/6e4feb00702735c9a7485f4ae714528a058cb2b7/android_world/agents/base_agent.py#L116) method.
In the current workflow, the agent tries to complete a task in a for loop. In each round, the [step](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/6e4feb00702735c9a7485f4ae714528a058cb2b7/android_world/agents/base_agent.py#L116) method will be called and this is where you implement your agent's logic. A typical approach involves first gathering information like the current screenshot, the UI elements (like buttons, icons) through the AndroidEnv instance within the agent, selecting one of the [supported actions](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/main/android_world/env/json_action.py), executing it through the AndroidEnv and returning an [AgentInteractionResult](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/6e4feb00702735c9a7485f4ae714528a058cb2b7/android_world/agents/base_agent.py#L26). The `done` property on AgentInteractionResult should be set to true to indicate that the task is finished.

2. Import your agent in [run.py](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/main/run.py) and also add it into the [_get_agent](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/15471441ac306ff08bca87454b1b546ae81db7af/run.py#L147) method which takes in your agent's name and return an instance of it.

3. Now you can run the benchmark with your new agent using the command above with the `agent_name` flag changed to your agent's name.


*This is not an officially supported Google product.*

Commit message:

Integrating AndroidEnv & AndroidWorld into SPA-Bench

README.md, after:

# 🌿🪑 [SPA-Bench](https://github.com/ai-agents-2030/SPA-Bench) – Major Adaptation for [AndroidWorld](https://github.com/google-research/android_world) 🔧

## AndroidWorld:
- Adaption to physical android device
- Integration of [ADBKeyBoard](https://github.com/senzhk/ADBKeyBoard) for inputting Chinese characters.


## M3A, T3A, SeeAct:
- Logs of agent-executed trajectories (screenshots, actions, errors, token costs, number of steps).
- Support for open-source models as replacements for GPT-based models.
  
---
# AndroidWorld

[![Unittests](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/actions/workflows/pytest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/actions/workflows/pytest.yml)

<p align="center">
<a href="https://google-research.github.io/android_world/">Website</a> •
<a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2405.14573">Paper</a>
</p>

![Overview](assets/overview.png)

**AndroidWorld** is an environment for building and benchmarking autonomous computer control agents.

It runs on a live Android emulator and contains a highly reproducible benchmark of 116 hand-crafted tasks across 20 apps, which are dynamically instantiated with randomly-generated parameters to create millions of unique task variations.

In addition to the built-in tasks, AndroidWorld also supports the popular web benchmark, MiniWoB++ from [Liu et al.](http://arxiv.org/abs/1802.08802).

Key features of AndroidWorld include:

* 📝 **116 diverse tasks** across 20 real-world apps
* 🎲 **Dynamic task instantiation** for millions of unique variations
* 🏆 **Durable reward signals** for reliable evaluation
* 🌐 **Open environment** with access to millions of Android apps and websites
* 💾 **Lightweight footprint** (2 GB memory, 8 GB disk)
* 🔧 **Extensible design** to easily add new tasks and benchmarks
* 🖥️ **Integration with MiniWoB++** web-based tasks

See demo videos on our [website](https://google-research.github.io/android_world/).

## Installation

1. Set up the Android Emulator
   1. Download Android Studio [here](https://developer.android.com/studio?gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQjw3ZayBhDRARIsAPWzx8oLcadBD0vAq8xmUutaunLGSzhgEtLz4xVZ_SpV4G0xJazS7LxQkDsaAuveEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds)
   2. Create an Android Virtual Device (AVD) by following these instructions. For hardware select **Pixel 6**, for System Image select **Tiramisu, API Level 33**, and choose AVD name as **AndroidWorldAvd**. [Watch the setup video.](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/assets/162379927/efc33980-8b36-44be-bb2b-a92d4c334a50)

1. Launch the Android Emulator from the command line

    Launch the emulator from the command line, not using the Android Studio UI, with the `-grpc 8554` flag which is needed communication with accessibility forwarding app.

    ```bash
    # Typically it's located in ~/Android/Sdk/emulator/emulator or
    # ~/Library/Android/sdk/emulator/emulator
    EMULATOR_NAME=AndroidWorldAvd # From previous step
    ~/Library/Android/sdk/emulator/emulator -avd $EMULATOR_NAME -no-snapshot -grpc 8554
    ```

1. [Optional] It's recommended to use `conda`, which you can download [here](https://docs.anaconda.com/free/miniconda/miniconda-install/).

    ```
    conda create -n android_world python=3.11.8
    conda activate android_world
    ```

1. Install the latest [AndroidEnv](https://github.com/google-deepmind/android_env):

    ```python
    git clone https://github.com/google-deepmind/android_env.git
    cd android_env
    python setup.py install
    ```

1. Install AndroidWorld. *Note: Python 3.11 or above is required.*

    ```python
    git clone https://github.com/google-research/android_world.git
    cd ./android_world
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python setup.py install
    ```

1. Add model provider APIs as environment variables.

    ```bash
    # Add to .bashrc.
    export OPENAI_API_KEY=your-key
    export GCP_API_KEY=your-key
    ```

## Quickstart

Run the `minimal_task_runner.py` script to see the basic mechanics of AndroidWorld components. It initializes the environment, sets up a task, and runs the default agent, M3A, on it.
```bash
python minimal_task_runner.py --task=ContactsAddContact
```

If you don't specify a task, a random task will be selected. *NOTE: If you want to try open-source apps, i.e not included with Android OS, please run `--perform_emulator_setup` in the script below.*

## Run the benchmark

```bash
python run.py \
  --suite_family=android_world \
  --agent_name=t3a_gpt4 \
  --perform_emulator_setup \
  --tasks=ContactsAddContact,ClockStopWatchRunning \  # Optional: Just run on a subset.
  -v=-2 \
```

The first time you run this script, you must install the necessary apps and set permissions by specifying `--perform_emulator_setup`. This is a one-time setup.

Above we specify the optional `--tasks` flag to run on a subset of tasks. Leave it empty to run on the entire AndroidWorld suite.

The `n_task_combinations` argument specifies how many parameter permutations to use for each task. For example, for an SMS task, it would correspond to different phone number/message combinations for each run.

If a run fails part-way through, you can resume it by re-running the script with the `--checkpoint_dir` flag pointing to the output directory from the original run.

You can control verbosity with `-v`. The -2 verbosity level is equivalent to `DEBUG`.

## Running MiniWoB++ tasks

To run the MiniWoB++ web-based tasks in AndroidWorld, simply set
`--suite_family=miniwob` in the command above.

A key advantage of running MiniWoB++ tasks is that common input elements are
rendered as native, commonly used Android UI widgets, rather than as HTML. Thus agents must learn to use universal
widgets such as time- and date-pickers:

<p align="center">
   <img src="assets/miniwob.png" style="width:30%">
</p>

## Create your own agent

In addition to the agents we provide [here](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/tree/main/android_world/agents), you can also easily create your own agent and run the benchmark with it as follows.

1. Create an agent class that inherits from [EnvironmentInteractingAgent](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/6e4feb00702735c9a7485f4ae714528a058cb2b7/android_world/agents/base_agent.py#L39C1-L39C44) and implement the [step](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/6e4feb00702735c9a7485f4ae714528a058cb2b7/android_world/agents/base_agent.py#L116) method.
In the current workflow, the agent tries to complete a task in a for loop. In each round, the [step](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/6e4feb00702735c9a7485f4ae714528a058cb2b7/android_world/agents/base_agent.py#L116) method will be called and this is where you implement your agent's logic. A typical approach involves first gathering information like the current screenshot, the UI elements (like buttons, icons) through the AndroidEnv instance within the agent, selecting one of the [supported actions](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/main/android_world/env/json_action.py), executing it through the AndroidEnv and returning an [AgentInteractionResult](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/6e4feb00702735c9a7485f4ae714528a058cb2b7/android_world/agents/base_agent.py#L26). The `done` property on AgentInteractionResult should be set to true to indicate that the task is finished.

2. Import your agent in [run.py](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/main/run.py) and also add it into the [_get_agent](https://github.com/google-research/android_world/blob/15471441ac306ff08bca87454b1b546ae81db7af/run.py#L147) method which takes in your agent's name and return an instance of it.

3. Now you can run the benchmark with your new agent using the command above with the `agent_name` flag changed to your agent's name.


*This is not an officially supported Google product.*
